---
meta:
  - title: "About me"
    description: "What I am doing, what I like, what I did"
---

import Buzzwords from "../components/Buzzwords";

# What I am currently doing

Check my [now](./now) page.

## Work

## Senior Frontend Engineer at zolar GmbH

### since 09/2022

Waitâ€¦ hadn't I just started freelancing? Oh, yes, I had. And as soon as I did,
some interesting interview opportunities came up. I could have joined BigTechâ„¢
â€“ and I was offered a job at [zolar](https://www.zolar.de). Which to be honest
was a no-brainer. Putting everything I learned in web development into the most
important topic for all of us (hint: climate change, not ice cream) is what I
want to do. So now I'm here, working with a React frontend to help put more
solar panels on roofs. And I'm loving it.

<Buzzwords
  words={["React", "Serverless", "AWS CDK", "TypeScript", "TailwindCSS"]}
/>

---

# What I did earlier

## Freelance Software Engineer

### 06/2022 - 09/2022

From June 2022 on, I worked as a freelance software engineer for a few months.

## Stealth Startup, working on a cloud PaaS

### 04/2022 - 05/2022

With a group of former Jimdo colleagues, Iâ€™ve prototyped the frontend for a
product in the cloud PaaS space. I used React with Remix.run and TailwindCSS to
quickly build up and iterate on the interface and APIs.

Writing Lambda functions in TypeScript and wiring everything up via the AWS CDK
was also part of the job.

Unfortunately, the project stopped at the end of May for various reasons.

<Buzzwords
  words={[
    "React",
    "Remix",
    "Serverless",
    "AWS CDK",
    "TypeScript",
    "TailwindCSS",
  ]}
/>

## Personal time off

### 02/2022 - 03/2022

With my daughter turning three and switching to a different kindergarten, I took
a few weeks off to go on vacation and then help my daughter settle in in the new
kindergarten.

## Teamlead Development Division at sum.cumo Sapiens GmbH

### 08/2021 â€“ 01/2022

Due to some organizational changes, I was asked to fill an open teamlead
position at sum.cumo Sapiens GmbH. In a rather difficult environment, I managed
a team of 15 people through regular 1on1s and initiatives around the
organizational change that was happening. I've led the efforts to implement
explicit career levels for all development division members which were
introduced and implemented by the end of 2021.

Based on various reasons, I made the decision to open myself up to other
opportunities.

<Buzzwords words={["Teamlead", "1on1s", "Management", "Career Levels"]} />

## UI Architect at sum.cumo Sapiens GmbH

### 08/2018 - 07/2021

I work as a UI Architect at sum.cumo Sapiens GmbH. I take care of setting up and
kickstarting projects with a proper foundation. My task is to get the project up
and running while making sure the code stays modular, reusable and robust. This
always involves the following:

<Buzzwords
  words={[
    "Vue",
    "NuxtJS",
    "(Layout) Components",
    "Frontend/CSS Architecture",
    "Storybook",
  ]}
/>

## Senior UI Engineer at XING SE

### 01/2017 â€“ 07/2018

In a fantastic team, I helped build a web design system for more than 40 product
teams. We built up a library of over 60 components. It includes contribution
guidelines and extensive documentation for the whole design system. I was lucky
to work with awesome people like [Daniel](https://twitter.com/dmbch),
[Yan](https://twitter.com/yanwalton), [Robin](https://twitter.com/RobinDrexler)
and [Matthias](https://twitter.com/aithir).

<Buzzwords
  words={[
    "React",
    "CSS Modules",
    "Components",
    "Design System",
    "Coordination",
    "Communication",
  ]}
/>

## UI Engineer at Jimdo GmbH

### 07/2015 - 12/2016

My last position at Jimdo was UI Engineer. A designer from a product team
decided to [hike across the Alps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVvmYZPWO1g),
so I filled in his position. Four weeks later, we had rolled out a new Corporate
Identity into the product. And we decided that I'd stay with the product team
from that point on.

I worked on the UI Library that [Fabian](https://afknapping.de/) had kickstarted
with an innocent button component. With the code, design and process superpowers
of [Lasse and Hannes](https://schubrake.de/), the library became ever more
useful. Later on, it formed the foundation for the rebuilt website
administration.

<Buzzwords words={["React", "UI Library", "Startup"]} />

## Template Daddy at Jimdo GmbH

### 03/2014 - 07/2015

In my former position, I gathered quite some knowledge about how HTML/CSS and
templates work at Jimdo. Building up templates for a new system felt pretty
natural to me and the leadership team. That system worked in a completely
different way compared to the one used back then within the Jimdo CMS.

I build up the team and templates together with
[Jill](https://www.jillheyer.com/), having loads of fun and learning a lot while
doing that.

<Buzzwords words={["Teambuilding", "LESS", "Sass", "Communication"]} />

## Partner Geek at Jimdo GmbH

### 01/2012 - 02/2014

I started at Jimdo working in the Partner Team with the awesome
[Hendric](https://twitter.com/hendricruesch). I cared about the relationships
with affiliate partners and build up the network of
[Jimdo Experts](https://experts.jimdo.com/). They provided special services for
Jimdo users. And I provided special support for their HTML/CSS needs ðŸ˜Š

<Buzzwords
  words={["Project Management", "Coordination", "Communication", "HTML", "CSS"]}
/>

## Intern, Trainee & Junior Technical Project Manager at achtung! GmbH

### 06/2010 - 12/2011

From starting as an intern until being a Junior PM for all technical parts of a
project, I helped various client teams bring their social media ideas from
concept into the browser. On the way, I helped designers and (external)
developers to communicate in a better way with each other.

<Buzzwords
  words={[
    "Social Media",
    "Project Management",
    "Coordination",
    "Communication",
  ]}
/>

## Communications Science at WWU MÃ¼nster

### 10/2005 - 02/2011

I mostly code by now, though originally I studied communication science at the
[IfK MÃ¼nster](https://www.uni-muenster.de/Kowi/). While I chose the theoretical
side of the studies, I gained a lot of practical knowledge at
[campus relations](https://campusrelations.jimdo.com/), a group of students
offering public relations work for local businesses in MÃ¼nster.

Next to that, I worked for [primus inter pares](https://www.pr-ip.de/), a
dedicated team of communication specialists. I did everything from writing press
releases to building WordPress websites.

<Buzzwords
  words={["Epistemology", "Public Relations", "WordPress", "HTML", "CSS"]}
/>
